---
layout: post
title: "Using Marp-CLI in a Docker container"
tags: Markdown
---

Recently, I had the idea for a tool, that converts a CSV file into a [Marp](https://marpit.marp.app/) markdown slides, which can subsequently be converted into a pdf file. The goal was to be able to work on multiple-choice quizzes with friends using e.g. google docs, then export the sheet as CSV and quickly generate slides for a quiz night.

 <!--more-->

## Problem
The CSV to markdown conversion is done by a Python script (Let's call it `csv-md-converter`). For the markdown-to-pdf step, I wanted to use the [Marp-CLI](https://github.com/marp-team/marp-cli). Since my project is based on python and the marp-cli is natively running based on the Node.js framework, I wanted to avoid having to install node.js dependencies. 

There were 2 main options to achieve this:
 1. use the [marp CLI docker image](https://hub.docker.com/r/marpteam/marp-cli/) and run the container using the [Docker SDK for Python](https://docker-py.readthedocs.io/en/stable/index.html) 
 2. Use the compiled version of marp-Cli

### Docker approach
Using the Python Docker SDK, I was able to run the container in my dev environment with the following code:
{% highlight python %}
import docker
client = docker.from_env()

# https://docker-py.readthedocs.io/en/stable/containers.html
client.containers.run('marpteam/marp-cli', '{} --pdf'.format(filename), volumes=[output_folder_path + ':/home/marp/app/'],
                      name="marp", detach=True, remove=True, init=True)
{% endhighlight %}

This worked well but has one Big Issue: I wanted to dockerize the `csv-md-converter` python app as well. Therefore I saw two options:
 - Create a "docker-in-docker" container, which allows running the Marp container inside my csv-md-converter python
 - Run Marp as a "Sibling" Docker container, by accessing the same docker host as the `csv-md-converter` service

Both of these are suboptimal to me.

### Binary approach
Another option would have been to use the compiled version of the Marp-Cli https://github.com/marp-team/marp-cli/releases.
The idea would be to download the compiled code in a Dockerfile.
This binary is not totally stand alone as it relies e.g. on chrome/chromium for the pdf conversion.


## Solution

Then I discovered the `--server ` option, which allows to run the Marp-Cli as a server and access it via web browser/Api.

`docker run -d -v /home/bla/csv-to-marp-converter/output:/home/marp/app/ -e LANG=$LANG -e PORT=4100 -p 4100:4100 marpteam/marp-cli --server  ./`

The solution that I ended up with was to use docker-compose to share a volume that the `csv-md-converter` python service and marp server could both access.
{% highlight yml %}
...
  marp:
    image: marpteam/marp-cli:latest
    container_name: marp
    command: marp --server -I .
    ports:
      - 4100:4100
    volumes: 
      - /home/bla/csv-to-marp-converter/output:/home/marp/app/
    environment:
      - LANG=$LANG
      - PORT=4100
{% endhighlight %}

One thing that confused me quite a bit was that apparently, the server will only start if there is a markdown file present in the folder specified in the `marp --server -I .` command. 